Assignment #3 
Jordan Shaheen
Part 2

The goal for my senior year capstone is to showcase my current potential as a computer scientist and what I have learned throughout my experience in college.  When deciding on my capstone project, my team and I chose a topic and software techniques prevalent today.  A successful Computer Science capstone creates a meaningful software application that is original, challenging, and cutting-edge.  Therefore, with the help of my teammates and I, we have come up with the idea of creating a Bias News Detector.  Theoretically, we could have attempted to create a less complicated project that we thought would be easier to finish and get a good grade smoothly.  However, we decided to go as far as our skills could take us to create something we truly wanted to develop.

For this project, my college curriculum has given me an excellent foundation to tackle it.  I have gained a great sense of team collaboration in all the group assignments and projects I have completed throughout my college career.  Recently, my and I have had meetings about our project, and there is a healthy amount of camaraderie that can help us collaborate on this project even more effortless.  Also, my past enrollments in Software Engineering (EECE3093C), a class built around developing a software application with your group, gave me a great sense of what this project would be like.  For that class, my group and I created a web-based application that uses Google Maps API to find the quickest routes between buildings on UC’s campus.  Furthermore, my past enrollment in AI: Principles and Applications (CS4033) and my current enrollment in Machine Learning (CS5137) will help me quickly grasp this project's natural language processing aspect of our Bias News Detector.  My team and I can make this project successful with my past experiences creating a web-based application, having a good overall understanding of ML/AI, and having healthy team collaboration.

Along with my college curriculum, my co-op experiences will become very beneficial throughout this project.  All three of my co-ops fall under the job title of Web Developer for a startup company named Remarcable.  Specifically, using Python’s web framework, Django, I managed a website, added admin functions, created API webhooks, adjusted and created HTML templates, webscrape functions, an Optical Character Recognition application, moved the website into Docker containers, etc.  With my co-op experiences, I now have above-average knowledge of creating web-based applications with Django.  On the contrary to having a lot of team collaboration within my college curriculum experiences, the projects I have worked on within my co-ops have been strictly independent.  Working solo throughout my co-op experiences has increased my reliability as a software engineer.
	
Based on the meetings my team and I have carried out, we have a solid preliminary project approach.  First, our website framework will be Django, which will dictate the backend and frontend structure of our website's construction.  As for finding out if a news article is biased, we will mainly use Natural Language Processing.  Although, to read these articles in the first place, we have yet to decide on creating an optical character recognition feature or giving the text to an API that could decipher the text for us.  With natural language processing, it can read the news articles allocated to the machine. Then, it will be able to find target words with bias associated with them.  With the target words, we will have a point system that categorizes biased comments based on their severity and generates an outcome stating whether the news article is biased.  If so, we will highlight where precisely the news article is biased.  If we have enough time left over for this project, we will then try and create the same bias detector for news videos.  The process of this Bias News Detector is still being brainstormed; there may still be some complications about the project structure that we currently can’t foresee and are subject to change.  However, my team and I will know the project is done when we have an accurate software application that detects bias in news and has an intuitive and user-friendly user interface.

With all my experience with web-based applications and our project topic being prevalent today, I am very motivated to work on this capstone.  I am motivated by this project because it will use new software techniques within the AI/ML field that I have yet to be able to use before.  To determine our progress this year, we will keep track of our contributions within our GitHub Repository’s commits to the main branch to see how motivated my team and I are.  Suppose my team and I have steady commits to the repository throughout this capstone project and are consistent with meetings and communications. In that case, I believe that we will be able to finish this project efficiently.  Also, with the commit data in the project’s GitHub Repository, we could see if we tried our best for this project and if we did as much as we could throughout this course.
	

